I think this was slowly kind of
simmering for for weeks now ever since
of course she made those comments to
Prime Minister in Japan. So certainly
now it seems to be coming to a bit more
of intensity here and we're hearing from
Japanese public broadcaster at NHK is
now saying a senior diplomat is visiting
China this week in a bid to soothe
tensions over the Prime Minister's
comments on Taiwan. Let's bring in our
China correspondent Mimmy Lo to talk us
through
what's the latest? Yeah, suddenly it
seems like it's serious enough that
Japan is now sending officials to China
and China suddenly is seeing this as
quite a material shift in Japan's
stance, right? Because this is the
clearest articulation yet under Sunny
Takiji that Japan would see any military
attack on Taiwan as an existential
crisis, which gives them the legal
justification to intervene militarily.
And this is something that Chinese state
media has been, you know, really up in
arms over saying that this is the first
overt threat of force that Japan has
shown to China in 80 years since World
War II and China is saying that this is
essentially the same as military
adventurism
and they are repeating their mistakes of
Japanese aggression in the 1940s.
So it's something that is trending
heavily on Chinese social media. You
know, Chinese people are talking a lot
about this and of course the Chinese
government has taken measures asking its
citizens not to travel to Japan over
these security concerns.
Is
one part of the argument is this was a
comment was a strong comment maybe taken
out of context. It's obviously a few
days since then a few weeks and then
this escalation we're in right now. Is
what we've seen in the last let's call
it 48 hours since Friday
a signal of more countermeasures to
come. Is this about to kick off or is
this almost as bad as it can get?
>> It could be. I think we have to see what
happens when the Japanese officials meet
with the Chinese officials because I
think what China wants to see is to have
Japan really commit to the one China
policy and maybe to retract those
statements. Of course I think what they
would really want is an apology from
Japan which they're not likely to get.
But right now we are seeing military
threats, right? You have China sending
these armed coast guards to the disputed
waters near the Senkaku or Diaoyu
Islands over the weekend saying that
they are making rights enforcement
patrols.
So it is a sign and this was explicitly
mentioned in a Weibo account linked to
the Chinese state media CCTV U Yuan Tan
Tian saying that these are signals that
China is prepared to take strong
countermeasures if things don't settle
down. And this kind of back and forth it
comes at the worst time, right? This is
coming at a time when we are seeing
plenty of Chinese tourists heading to
Japan. I mean you can include Hong Kong
as well.
>> And a weak currency. Yeah. Yeah, I mean
we are looking at traveler numbers close
to pre-pandemic levels now. 7.5 million
travelers in the first 9 months of this
year and bear in mind Chinese travelers
are the biggest spenders and they make
up now nearly a quarter of Japan's total
foreign travelers. So you think about
all these Japanese brands that rely
heavily on Chinese revenue. They brands
like Shiseido more than 30% coming from
the Chinese market. So that's why we are
seeing the stock down about close to 10%
today. And some analysts at Bloomberg
Intelligence analyst Catherine Lim is
saying that some of these Japanese
companies' ambition to expand further in
China could be hampered by this as well,
especially if the Chinese government put
out a stronger statement calling on its
citizens to boycott some of these
brands.
>> Yeah, we've seen this before in previous
episodes where this the tensions between
the two have flared up. It's really
played out on the business on on the
ground.
>> specifically happened I think when Japan
nationalized the the Senkaku Island or
privatized it.
I can't remember but
yeah, and the Chinese government
explicitly told I think the Chinese
citizens to boycott some of these
Japanese brands.
>> I was still a student in China. Remember
mid-2000s where there were
[clears throat] flare-ups, you know,
there were riots.
>> there were all these flags that people
would hang
on their cars or outside their windows.
>> Yes, so it I mean there's there's
something in there that you light the
the proper fight that could get out of
hand but but yes, that's where we are.
All right, Mimmy Lo thank you.
Let's talk a little more about what
we're seeing across these markets and
the reaction that we're seeing in Japan
in particular. Let's bring in our Alice
French. She's our Japan stocks reporter
in Tokyo. And Alice, I mean you should
take your pick whether it's, you know,
tourism [clears throat] or travel
related. We're seeing some outsized
moves here to the downside. What are you
tracking so far in your team?
Absolutely. Good morning. Yes, so look
department stocks are being hit pretty
hard today. We're seeing Isetan
Mitsukoshi down over 12% J. Front
Retailing also having a bad morning and
this is partly as as Mimmy Mim says, you
know, we know that Chinese tourists are
among the biggest spenders in in inbound
visitors in Japan and a lot of them make
tax-free purchases at department stores
and so those likely to be hit. Also
things like Fast Retailing that runs
Uniqlo down over 6% this morning. We're
seeing Pan Pacific as well which runs
Don Quijote which of course is is
popular with tourists from all over but
does get frequented by by Chinese
tourists too.
Really having a big decline this morning
and it seems to be really weighing on
both the benchmarks here this morning.
Now we know, you know, if we go back to
kind of the beginning of this year, sort
of January, February time, a lot of
analysts were getting really excited
about, you know, this kind of record
number of tourists that Japan was
planning to see in 2025. Chinese
visitors obviously making up a big chunk
of that and a lot of stocks had gained a
lot on those expectations. Not least
things like hotel operators Kyoritsu
Maintenance for example had seen some
pretty nice gains and is now down around
9% this morning. So I think there might
be some sort of some re-rating or some
definitely some concerns coming in in
terms of how investors are looking at
these sort of inbound related stocks
going towards the year end. Yeah.